#summary General plans for Scorched Moon
#labels Phase-Design

= Need for MoonPy rewrite =

Although project tether has come a long ways and done well with creating MoonPy, there are many flaws inherent in it's structure due to the fact it was written by continually modifying openRTS (a FOSS RTS engine). Given how fundamental these flaws are, a proposed rewrite from scratched called Scorched Moon is in progress now. It will be based heavily on MoonPy and could be considered "MoonPy2". This page outlines some of the ideas and plans I have for Scorched Moon.


= Library changes =
I want to change some of the libraries we've been using

== GUI library ==

MoonPy used the openRTS gui, this was functional but poorly documented and not even complete. In order to have newer features such as slider bars we need a new GUI. I am testing different GUI's and think that the GUI from [http://code.google.com/p/pgu/ PGU] will meet our needs.

== networking library ==
MoonPy used twisted for it's networking code. Twisted is a very powerful system and has many useful features but it has some serious limitations especially when it comes to clients logging in. Working with different network libraries I suggest we use [http://www.geometrian.com/programming/projects/index.php mastermind] instead. It's much smaller, more easily portable, and looks like it will handle out needs.

=== variable hosts ===
With the new network code we need to plan from the beginning to allow joined players the option to take over hosting if the original leaves the game.

= Map rewrite =
There are many changes I want to make to the map

== Height differences ==
Although I have no intention on adding height for the actual units themselves like in OMBC, I do want to have height differences for the terrain and allow it to affect the length of shots.

== Seperate terrain tiles from map tiles ==
In MoonPy all ground tiles had to be the exact same size as the smallest size a unit could move. This led to having lots of little terrain tiles all over the map. I would like to have it that each terrain tile is larger then each map tile. Somewhat similar to how each unit takes up a 9x9 grid of tiles. 