#labels Phase-Design
#Scorched Moon design plans

= Reason for Scorched Moon =

MoonPy was created somewhat haphazardly by modifying openRTS into an ATS game similar to OMBC. Scorched Moon is going to be built from the ground up to make a game that is designed with the exact capabilities that we need.


= Design Plans =

Scorched Moon is going to be built in two parts. First will be the server. Second will be the client. These will be capable of running completely independently of each other so that custom clients can be used and to help prevent cheating. Custom clients will potentially allow for playing through web-based or possibly even Email-based options. All that would be needed is a client designed that is web/Email compatible.

== Server Design ==

Server will handle all game logic in Scorched Moon, this includes map data. The client will submit turn variables to the server. Server will process this data then send complete map data back to the client. This includes FoW and SoW. By having the server handle of FoW and SoW it will limit player cheating as the client will only receive the information that the player is supposed to know and create confidence that custom clients are not cheating. This will hypothetically allow someone to simply connect up and play through telnet or any client someone might choose to make that uses the commands. However because most people are going to want to play with a client similar to OMBC that is active the map data sent by the server does need to include 'active' data. Specifically the map needs to indicate that a unit recently 'traveled' across a specific location. This way in a game using FoW if a shot goes from within the FoW, goes through a players field of view and lands within the FoW on the other side the player who's field of view it went through will be aware of the shot and what direction it was traveling. 

== Client Design ==

Although focus will be on the server since it will be handling all of the actual processing of the game we will need our own client for people to connect with. The initial client will be kept simple and be little more then an interface for connecting to a server, displaying the map, and controls for taking a turn. 