#summary user manual
#labels Phase-Support,Featured

= Object of Game =

Destroy your enemies!


= Installation = 

 # Download the version of [http://code.google.com/p/tether/downloads/list/ MoonPy] that corresponds to your OS
 # If using linux simply use the appropriate package manager to install
 # If using windows unzip all files and then run MoonPy.exe
 # If using osX unzip all files, download and install [http://www.pygame.org/download.shtml pygame] and [http://www.pythonware.com/products/pil/ PIL], then run moon.py


= Playing MoonPy online =

Currently MoonPy does not have a master server. This means all games need to be joined directly using IP addresses. For now the best place to find others to play MoonPy is on channel #moonpy on irc.freenode.net and organize games manually from there.


= Gameplay =

== How to 'move' ==

All units are launched similar to many artillery games, like scorched3D, except with a top down perspective. On your turn select the unit you wish to fire from. Choose the direction you wish to fire, then choose the weapon you wish to fire. When ready, hold down the fire button. The power indicator will start moving up and down. Releasing the fire button will launch the unit in the direction selected with the power the power indicator ended on.

== Energy, rounds, and turns ==

MoonPy progresses in rounds *and* turns. Each player can launch one unit on their turn. Whenever a unit is launched, energy based on the energy level is used up. All players continue taking turns until they either run out of energy or choose to skip their turns. Once every player has either run out of energy or skipped their turn the round ends. When the round ends all players regain energy. 


= Units = 

== Level 1 ==

http://tether.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/images/units/bomb.png Bomb: Most basic weapon, does 3 damage

http://tether.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/images/units/antiair.png Anti-Air: 3HP, fires a laser that shoots down a single incoming shot within it's range. Requires a turn to reload afterwards

http://tether.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/images/units/bridge.png Bridge: 3HP, allows tethers and buildings to cross water. Bridges self-destruct if they do not land on water. 

http://tether.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/images/units/cluster.png Cluster Bomb: Splits into 3 mini-bombs midflight. Each mini-bomb does 1 damage

http://tether.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/images/units/repair.png Repair: Restores unit it lands on for 1HP

http://tether.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/images/units/tower.png Tower: 3HP, expands your view in fog of war


== Level 3 ==

http://tether.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/images/units/emp.png EMP: Disables units within large radius.

http://tether.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/images/units/missile.png Missile: Automatically flys towards the nearest enemy target it detects while being launched, does 3 damage

http://tether.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/images/units/mine.png Mines: 3HP, mines land on the ground and detonate if an enemy gets too close, does 3 damage per mine

http://tether.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/images/units/recall.png Recall: Converts a unit into energy without causing them to explode. Does 3 damage to enemy units and 5 damage to your own.

http://tether.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/images/units/spike.png Spike: Spikes travel down tethers allowing them to hit more then one building and do damage when landing on a tether. Does 3 damage if it lands directly on a unit, 1 damage if it travels down a tether


== Level 7 == 

http://tether.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/images/units/crawler.png Crawler: 3HP, crawlers travel forward each round until they run into something. At which point they detonate for 4 damage.

http://tether.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/images/units/collector.png Collector: 5HP, provides 3 energy per round if placed on an energy pool. Provides 1 energy per round if placed on normal ground. When destroyed they explode in a large radius for 5 damage

http://tether.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/images/units/offense.png Offense: 3HP, fires weapons at twice the range of a hub, but is unable to launch buildings.

http://tether.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/images/units/shield.png Shield: 3HP, fires a laser that shoots down all incoming shots within it's range. Unlike the anti-air it does not need to reload.

http://tether.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/images/units/virus.png Virus: Infects units, infected units are disabled and can not be used for that turn. During each turn the virus deals one damage to the infected unit and travels down the tether to infect another unit. This continues until all connected units have been infected. Although viruses can deal damage they can not destroy units.

http://tether.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/images/units/hub.png Hub: 5HP, your primary unit. It is capable of launching all other units including other hubs.


== Misc == 
http://tether.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/images/terrain/tether.png Tether: Most units are connected to each other by tethers. When a hub is destoyed all tethered units that were launched by that hub are also destroyed. This means if your main hub (the one you start the game with) is destroyed you have lost the game since all units are ultimately connected to that hub. The flashing lights on the tethers always move back towards the center hub. 

http://tether.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/images/terrain/tile_grass.png Grass: Regular ground, all units can be placed on it.

http://tether.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/images/terrain/tile_energy.png Energy Pool: Placing a collector on an energy pool provides extra energy per turn

http://tether.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/images/terrain/tile_rocks.png Rocks: Tethers can cross rocks but buildings that land on them are destroyed

http://tether.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/images/terrain/tile_water.png Water: All units except for bridges and crawlers are destroyed when landing in water. Bridges can be used to cross water. 


= Differences between MoonPy and Moonbase Commander =

Because of fundamental differences between the MoonPy engine and the original Moonbase Commander (OMBC) engine. There are currently some differences between the two. Some of these we are planning on eventually fixing, the others probably won't be fixed. Please check the [http://code.google.com/p/tether/issues/list issue tracker] for more information.
 # Anti-air's shoot incoming shots automatically: In OMBC when an anti-air detected an incoming shot a little missile would fly out to hit it. This would give players the possibility of hitting something before the anti-air missile hit. In MoonPy anti-air's are now instantaneous just like shields.
 # EMP's do no damage: In OMBC a direct hit by an EMP would do some damage, MoonPy EMP's do no damage even on a direct hit.
 # Spike damage is not based on distance: In OMBC a spike would do 3 damage and depending on how far the spike had to travel down the tether would do less and less damage until it did no damage at all. In MoonPy a spike does 3 damage on a direct hit and only 1 damage if it travels down a tether regardless of how long/short it has to travel.
 # No unique player colors: In OMBC, players would choose a color that would identify them to other players. In MoonPy all of "your" units are colored green while all enemies are colored red and all allies are colored blue. Although this makes it harder to identify and target a specific person, this change allows us to theoretically have an unlimited number of players rather then the 4 player cap OMBC had.
 # No balloons: Currently balloons can not be launched out. This is mostly due to the fact coding a 'floating' unit will take a lot of work and since there is no FoW there isn't really any need for balloons at this time. Balloons will be implemented later once FoW is done. 
 # 2D engine: Although OMBC used 2D graphics it was a fully 3D game that paid attention to things like 'up' and 'down' (especially noticeable with towers). MoonPy has a fully 2D engine so there is no height differences with units.

Of course as with any open source project, just because we don't have any plans on fixing some of the differences between MoonPy and OMBC doesn't mean someone can't take the source code and fix it for us.